At the very end of the last lecture I have mentioned that there are different approaches to creating
database seeders in Lara all the simplest one you see on the screen is to just implement the run method
of the database seeder class and create all your models inside.
This single method in specific order that your application requires then another approach is to create
specific cedar classes and this can be handled different ways.
So for example you can have cedar class for every model that you have or you can create some specific
cedar classes that you will be then able to run individually to fill up the database with the with the
data depending on your needs.
So let me give you an example.
So you can either create a cedar for each single model like user posts and comments and we'll do that
in a second.
Or alternatively you can create seeders that will just populate the data in a different way.
So for example one cedar can create 20 users 50 posts and 250 comments and another cedar can create
let's say to users 1000 blog posts and maybe 10000 comments depending on your actual development needs.
But let's go with the first way which would be to create cedar class for every individual model.
So of course there is a comment for that called peach artisan make cedar and you have to come up with
a proper name for this class and a good convention is to use the table name.
So this would be users table cedar and you can see that this class was created inside the seeds folder.
So I will now go ahead and create cedar for each of our models.
So this would be blog posts table cedar and the last one would be
comments table cedar obviously you can see all of those free classes were created inside the database
seeds folder.
Now obviously you will have to refactor this code a little bit more for the specific chunks of responsible
for specific models into the different classes that we have just created.
And also you will see how you can accept some additional input from the user to modify the way we seed
the database.
Now let's immediately go ahead and refactor this code.
So we need this first chunk creating users and let's move it to our users tables Cedar Run method.
Now since we call those cedar classes are called separately we do not need our single collection.
That will then work on will fetch the users differently.
So we do not need these variables and also we don't have to concatenate them into a single collection.
So this is enough.
This will just create some user models.
Now let's go back to database cedar now.
How would you call this user a stable cedar.
This is that was this commented out line that was here before we even made any changes.
And this is how we do it.
You use that this Cole method of the database cedar to call the specific cedar class.
Now this was our first class.
Now let's go and move to the blog post so here is our blog post tables cedar
and now you can see that we have disposed variable we of course do not need it anymore as we won't be
immediately doing anything with posts.
But the problem is where do we get the users from.
So this is pretty easy since we would like to add some blog posts to all the users.
We can simply fetch older users using their static all method and everything stays the same.
And this would now be responsible for saving their users.
And finally we have comments so let's move this code into the comments tables cedar of course we do
not need this variable anymore and we have posts here which we had the same problem before.
Now we can also fetch the posts using the old method of up blog post.
So this should fetch us all the blog posts from the database.
And now what we have to handle is the order in which those seeders are cold so you can either add multiple
calls to this this call or alternatively you can just have a single call and only specify them in order
inside an array.
So the next step should be blog posts table cedar and finally comments table cedar so maybe let's reformat
it so it is more readable now before you can run this new database cedar.
You have to run composer dump out to load to regenerate the outer loader.
Remember that you will have to run this command each time you will create a new database cedar.
Class seems I've made a typo.
It is actually out of load.
Okay.
It was a regenerated and now let's find this command in the history and this beach artisan migrate to
refresh.
So we want to refresh the database and re seeded again with the new data.
So now you can see inside the terminal that it is saying what it is doing and it signals that it is
using specific seeders.
Now if you will check the database now you can see that the effect is exactly the same as we had before
when everything was inside this single database Cedar Run method.
But the difference is that even if we call here all these cedar classes in specific order having the
same effect the additional bonus that we get by separating those seeding logic into classes is that
we can call those cedar classes individually.
So first let's run peach bee artisan migrate refresh so we have recreated the data base but haven't
seeded it so it is empty.
You can even verify that that all the tables are empty for example the user stable.
And now you can run one cedar individually.
Let's say you would like to load the users.
So what you will do is you will write peach bee artisan DB seed and you will only specify a class that
you would like.
So this would be users table cedar and now let's go to the database you can see that we have the users
inside the database but there is no blog posts or comments so let's see if we can load blog posts so
blog posts.
Table cedar
comments is still empty but we do get their blog posts so you can use this specific cedar classes to
just to maybe do everything at once.
But using some different logic so they can work differently depending on your needs or you can just
load the data for a specific table.
That all depends on the needs of your application and what you might currently need to do so in the
next lecture we'll see how we can possibly enhance this single individual cedar classes by asking users
some input for example how many blog posts they would like to be created.